Creating a dedicated OpenSSH section in docs (#4130)
gravitational/teleport: docs/4.3/openssh_teleport.md

# Using Teleport with OpenSSH

Teleport is fully compatible with OpenSSH and can be quickly setup to record and

> audit all SSH activity. Using Teleport and OpenSSH had the advantage of getting up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
audit all SSH activity. Using Teleport and OpenSSH has the advantage of getting you up
```

Existing fleets of OpenSSH servers can be configured to accept SSH certificates
dynamically issued by a Teleport CA.  We'll outline how to set it up here.

## Architecture
![Node Service ping API](img/openssh-proxy.svg)

The recording proxy mode, although less secure, was added to allow Teleport users
to enable session recording for OpenSSH's servers running `sshd`, which is helpful
when gradually transitioning large server fleets to Teleport.

We consider the "recording proxy mode" to be less secure for two reasons:

+ It grants additional privileges to the Teleport proxy. In the default mode, the
proxy stores no secrets and cannot "see" the decrypted data. This makes a proxy
less critical to the security of the overall cluster. But if an attacker gains
physical access to a proxy node running in the "recording" mode, they will be able
to see the decrypted traffic and client keys stored in proxy's process memory.

+ Recording proxy mode requires the SSH agent forwarding. Agent forwarding is required
because without it, a proxy will not be able to establish the 2nd connection to the
destination node.

Teleport proxy should be available to clients, and be setup with TLS.

> Teleport OpenSSH supports

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Teleport OpenSSH supports:
```

+ FQDN `ec2-user@ip-172-31-14-137.us-west-2.compute.internal`

> + IPv4 `root@184.45.45.30`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ IPv4 `ubuntu@184.45.45.30`
```

Just to have a wider range of principals listed in the examples.

terminate the SSH connection to record it:

``` bash
# Note that agent forwarding is enabled twice: one from a client to a proxy
# (mandatory if using a recording proxy), and then optionally from a proxy
# to the end server if you want your agent running on the end server or not
$ ssh -o "ForwardAgent yes" \
    -o "ProxyCommand ssh -o 'ForwardAgent yes' -p 3023 %r@p.example.com -s proxy:%h:%p" \
    user@host.example.com
```

!!! tip "Tip"

    To avoid typing all this and use the usual `ssh user@host.example.com `, users
    can update their ` ~/.ssh/config` file.

**IMPORTANT**

It's important to remember that SSH agent forwarding must be enabled on the
client. Verify that a Teleport certificate is loaded into the agent after
logging in:

``` bsh
# Login as Joe
$ tsh login --proxy=proxy.example.com --user=joe
# see if the certificate is present (look for "teleport:joe") at the end of the cert
$ ssh-add -L
```

!!! warning "GNOME Keyring SSH Agent and GPG Agent"

    It is well-known that Gnome Keyring SSH agent, used by many popular Linux
    desktops like Ubuntu, and gpg-agent from GnuPG do not support SSH
    certificates. We recommend using the `ssh-agent` from OpenSSH.

>     Alternatively, you can disable SSH agent integration entirely using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Alternatively, you can disable SSH agent integration entirely using the
```

    `--no-use-local-ssh-agent` flag or `TELEPORT_USE_LOCAL_SSH_AGENT=false`
    environment variable with `tsh`.

## Using OpenSSH Client

It is possible to use the OpenSSH client `ssh` to connect to nodes within a
Teleport cluster. Teleport supports SSH subsystems and includes a `proxy`
subsystem that can be used like `netcat` is with `ProxyCommand` to connect
through a jump host.

On your client machine, you need to import these keys. It will allow your
OpenSSH client to verify that host's certificates are signed by the trusted CA
key:

> 

Author: added.

``` yaml
$ cat teleport_user_ca.pub >> ~/.ssh/known_hosts
```

If you have multiple Teleport clusters, you have to export and set up these
certificate authorities for each cluster individually.

!!! tip "OpenSSH and Trusted Clusters"

    If you use [recording proxy mode](architecture/teleport_proxy.md) and [trusted

>     clusters](trusted-clusters.md), you need to set up certificate authority from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    clusters](trusted-clusters.md), you need to set up the certificate authority from
```

    the _root_ cluster to match **all** nodes, even those that belong to _leaf_
    clusters. For example, if your node naming scheme is `*.root.example.com`,
    `*.leaf1.example.com`, `*.leaf2.example.com`, then the
    `@certificate-authority` entry should match `*.example.com` and use the CA
    from the root auth server only.

Make sure you are running OpenSSH's `ssh-agent` , and have logged in to the
Teleport proxy:

``` bash
$ eval `ssh-agent`

> $ tsh --proxy=work.example.com login

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ tsh --proxy=root.example.com login
```

We should pick a naming scheme and use it throughout the example to make it easier to follow. I think `root.example.com` and `leaf1.example.com` are fine.

```

`ssh-agent` will print environment variables into the console. Either `eval` the
output as in the example above, or copy and paste the output into the shell you
will be using to connect to a Teleport node. The output exports the
`SSH_AUTH_SOCK` and `SSH_AGENT_PID` environment variables that allow OpenSSH
clients to find the SSH agent.

Lastly, configure the OpenSSH client to use the Teleport proxy when connecting
to nodes with matching names. Edit `~/.ssh/config` for your user or
`/etc/ssh/ssh_config` for global changes:

``` bash

> # work.example.com is the jump host (proxy). credentials will be obtained from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# root.example.com is the jump host (proxy). credentials will be obtained from the
```

# openssh agent.

> Host work.example.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Host root.example.com
```

    HostName 192.168.1.2
    Port 3023

> # connect to nodes in the work.example.com cluster through the jump

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# connect to nodes in the root.example.com cluster through the jump
```

# host (proxy) using the same. credentials will be obtained from the
# openssh agent.

> Host *.work.example.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Host *.root.example.com
```

    HostName %h
    Port 3022

>     ProxyCommand ssh -p 3023 %r@work.example.com -s proxy:%h:%p

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ProxyCommand ssh -p 3023 %r@root.example.com -s proxy:%h:%p
```

> # when connecting to a node within a trusted cluster with name "remote-cluster",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# when connecting to a node within a trusted cluster with name "leaf1.example.com",
```

# add the name of the cluster to the invocation of the proxy subsystem.

> Host *.remote-cluster.example.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Host *.leaf1.example.com
```

   HostName %h
   Port 3022

>    ProxyCommand ssh -p 3023 %r@work.example.com -s proxy:%h:%p@remote-cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ProxyCommand ssh -p 3023 %r@root.example.com -s proxy:%h:%p@leaf1.example.com
```

```

When everything is configured properly, you can use ssh to connect to any node

> behind `work.example.com` :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
behind `root.example.com` :
```

``` bash

> $ ssh root@database.work.example.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ ssh root@database.root.example.com
```

```

!!! tip "Note"

    Teleport uses OpenSSH certificates instead of keys which means

>     you can not connect to a Teleport node by IP address. You have to connect by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    you cannot ordinarily connect to a Teleport node by IP address. You have to connect by
```

I think you can actually allow this by putting the node's IP into `advertise_ip` or `ssh_service.public.addr` and restarting Teleport (as it'll regenerate the node's cert to include the IP as a principal) but this might be advanced usage. Up to you whether we highlight it or not.

Author: I was chatting to @russjones about this, this makes a lot more sense now why using IP sucks. I'll make a note of this.

    DNS name. This is because OpenSSH ensures the DNS name of the node you are
    connecting is listed under the `Principals` section of the OpenSSH
    certificate to verify you are connecting to the correct node.

To connect to the OpenSSH server via `tsh`, add `--port=<ssh port>` with the `tsh ssh` command:

> Example ssh to `database.work.example.com` as `root` with a OpenSSH server on port 22 via `tsh`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example ssh to `database.root.example.com` as `dev` with a OpenSSH server on port 22 via `tsh`:
```

Reviewer: Missed this one.

```bash

> tsh ssh --port=22 root@database.work.example.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tsh ssh --port=22 dev@database.root.example.com
```

Doing this to continue the `root.example.com` theme and changing the user so we don't repeat `root`.

```

!!! warning "Warning"

    The principal (username) being used to connect must be listed in the Teleport user/role configuration.

### OpenSSH Rate Limiting

When using a Teleport proxy in "recording mode", be aware of OpenSSH built-in

> rate limiting. On large number of proxy connections you may encounter errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rate limiting. On large numbers of proxy connections you may encounter errors
```

like:

``` bash
channel 0: open failed: connect failed: ssh: handshake failed: EOF
```

> See `MaxStartups` setting in `man sshd_config` . This setting means that by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See `MaxStartups` setting in `man sshd_config`. This setting means that by
```

default OpenSSH only allows 10 unauthenticated connections at a time and starts

> dropping connections 30% of the time when the number of connections goes over 10

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dropping connections 30% of the time when the number of connections goes over 10.
```

> and when it hits 100 authentication connections, all new connections are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When it hits 100 authentication connections, all new connections are
```

dropped.

To increase the concurrency level, increase the value to something like

> MaxStartups 50:30:100. This allows 50 concurrent connections and a max of 100.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`MaxStartups 50:30:100`. This allows 50 concurrent connections and a max of 100.
```

Teleport is a standards-compliant SSH proxy and it can work in environments with
existing SSH implementations, such as OpenSSH. This section will cover:

* Configuring OpenSSH client `ssh` to login into nodes inside a Teleport
  cluster.

> * Configuring OpenSSH server `sshd` to join a Teleport cluster.

Reviewer: This section looks like it belongs at the top rather than here?

Author: moved

# Revoke a SSH Certificate

> To revoke Teleports CA run `tctl auth rotate`, unless you've highly automated your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To revoke the current Teleport CA and generate a new one, run `tctl auth rotate`. Unless you've highly automated your
```

> infrastructure we would suggest you proceed with caution as this will invalidate the user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
infrastructure, we would suggest you proceed with caution as this will invalidate the user
```

> and host CAs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and host CAs, meaning that the new CAs will need to be exported to every OpenSSH-based machine again using `tctl auth export` as above.
```

#                x-teleport-role UNKNOWN OPTION (len 8)
```

> Then add the following lines to  `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` on all OpenSSH nodes, and restart `sshd`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then add the following lines to `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` on all OpenSSH nodes, and restart `sshd`.
```

!!! warning "Warning"

>     The principal/username, dev@ in the example above, being used to connect must be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The principal/username (`dev@` in the example above) being used to connect must be
```

Tidier
